
    Zone-H tracks online vandalism by script-kiddies defacing websites. Attackers report their own successes there, to get high on the leader board; they are not motivated by profit, but by fame and glory in a particular niche.
    The blog of RiskIQ, a security company, gives an account of more advanced compromise of websites, by cybercriminals to steal credit card information (aka card skimming). This are also called Mage Card attacks, named after one of the criminal groups carrying out these attacks. One attack vector employed for are supply chain attacks via misconfigured cloud storage, where JavaScript files stored in Amazon's cloud were left world-readable.
    Obviously, such supply chain attacks render any security mechanisms such as SOP ineffective, as the compromised JavaScript is included as 1st party content, even though it might be included from other domains (as explained in lecture 5). The newer security mechanism of sandboxed iframes could still be used, esp. on any webpages where credit card information is entered, to prevent malicious JavaScript from accessing such sensitive data.
    Antichat is one of the best-known and oldest websites for buying and offering criminal cyber services and information: e.g. malware, stolen credit card data, access to compromised machines, spamming as a service. It is a Russian language website, so use with google-translate if you do not speak Russian. Access to some info requires you to create an account. This is not the most professional website of its kind, but more professional ones are harder to get into.

If your interested in understanding the criminal side of cyber security, I can recommend following Krebs on Security, the blog of Brian Krebs, one of the renowned researchers in this field. He puts out a steady stream of news articles on latest trends.

Finally, a funny SQL injection anecdote:, more related to the server-side attacks discussed in week 3: attempted SQL injection via the name of an officially registered company  (Companies House is the UK equivalent of the Kamer van Koophandel in the Netherlands.)
